README.md, before:

<div align="center">

  <a href="https://kobber.gyldendal.no">
    <img src="https://dam-prod.gyldendaldigital.no/tenants/edu/file/FO4HFrU94yn8e_pN7iIqOf/*/FO4HFrU94yn8e_pN7iIqOf.svg" height="150">
    <h3 align="center">Gyldendals designsystem</h3>
  </a>

  <h1 align="center">Kobber</h1>

[![NPM latest version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@gyldendal/kobber-components/latest.svg?color=481125&labelColor=481125)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gyldendal/kobber-components)
![NPM last update](https://img.shields.io/npm/last-update/%40gyldendal%2Fkobber-components?color=481125&labelColor=481125)
[![Figma](https://img.shields.io/badge/figma-%23F24E1E.svg?logo=figma&logoColor=white&color=481125)](https://www.figma.com/design/zMcbm8ujSMldgS1VB70IMP/Kobber-Komponentbibliotek)

</div>

### ⚡ How to add components to your project

#### Install

```bash
npm install @gyldendal/kobber-components
```

#### Use

```html
<script>
  import "@gyldendal/kobber-components/web-components";
</script>

<div class="kobber-theme-default">
  <kobber-button>Hello Kobber</kobber-button>
</div>
```

> [!TIP]
> Check [components readme](./packages/kobber-components/README.md) for adding fonts, and using components in SSR.

<br />

### 🖼️ How to add icons to your project

#### Install

```bash
npm install @gyldendal/kobber-icons
```

#### Use

```html
<script>
  import "@gyldendal/kobber-icons/web-components";
</script>

<kobber-arrow_right />
```

> [!TIP]
> Check [icons readme](./packages/kobber-icons/README.md) for more options.

<br />

## Development

This monorepo contains all code related to Kobber. They share dependencies and common commands can be run from root using [Turbo CLI syntax](https://turbo.build/docs/reference/run#--filter-string).

### Run docs page locally

```bash
yarn install

# build only this package and all its dependencies
yarn build -F @gyldendal/kobber-components

# runs the dev server for /apps/docs project (kobber.gyldendal.no)
yarn dev -F docs
```

Also requires an .env file in the docs folder with [the following secrets in Keeper](https://keepersecurity.eu/vault/#detail/7i8pCa5I6A9YAIPYzvYTPA).

### Run Storybook locally

```bash
yarn install

# Produce css variables from design tokens, required by components
yarn build -F @gyldendal/kobber-base

# runs the dev server for /apps/storybook-web-components (kobber-storybook.gyldendaldigital.no)
yarn storybook
```

### Test Kobber locally using import aliases

Methods such as `npm link` exist for testing NPM packages locally before deploying to the NPM registry.

Import aliases can also be used for developing Kobber locally in parallell with other projects.

In the project using Kobber, add import aliases that point to the local Kobber-repo:

```js
// vite.config.js

import { resolve } from "path";

export default defineConfig({
  resolve: {
    alias: {
      "@gyldendal/kobber-base": resolve(__dirname, "../../../../kobber/packages/kobber-base"),
      "@gyldendal/kobber-components": resolve(__dirname, "../../../../kobber/packages/kobber-components/dist"),
    },
  },
});
```

Webpack does also have an `resolve.alias` option.

After updating the config it might be necessary to run vite with the force option, i.e. `vite --force`.

Commit message:

docs: Improve README with development setup and prerequisites

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

  <a href="https://kobber.gyldendal.no">
    <img src="https://dam-prod.gyldendaldigital.no/tenants/edu/file/FO4HFrU94yn8e_pN7iIqOf/*/FO4HFrU94yn8e_pN7iIqOf.svg" height="150">
    <h3 align="center">Gyldendals designsystem</h3>
  </a>

  <h1 align="center">Kobber</h1>

[![NPM latest version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@gyldendal/kobber-components/latest.svg?color=481125&labelColor=481125)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gyldendal/kobber-components)
![NPM last update](https://img.shields.io/npm/last-update/%40gyldendal%2Fkobber-components?color=481125&labelColor=481125)
[![Figma](https://img.shields.io/badge/figma-%23F24E1E.svg?logo=figma&logoColor=white&color=481125)](https://www.figma.com/design/zMcbm8ujSMldgS1VB70IMP/Kobber-Komponentbibliotek)

</div>

### ⚡ How to add components to your project

#### Install

```bash
npm install @gyldendal/kobber-components
```

#### Use

```html
<script>
  import "@gyldendal/kobber-components/web-components";
</script>

<div class="kobber-theme-default">
  <kobber-button>Hello Kobber</kobber-button>
</div>
```

> [!TIP]
> Check [components readme](./packages/kobber-components/README.md) for adding fonts, and using components in SSR.

<br />

### 🖼️ How to add icons to your project

#### Install

```bash
npm install @gyldendal/kobber-icons
```

#### Use

```html
<script>
  import "@gyldendal/kobber-icons/web-components";
</script>

<kobber-arrow_right />
```

> [!TIP]
> Check [icons readme](./packages/kobber-icons/README.md) for more options.

<br />

## Development

This monorepo contains all code related to Kobber. They share dependencies and common commands can be run from root using [Turbo CLI syntax](https://turbo.build/docs/reference/run#--filter-string).

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js >=20.0.0**
- **Corepack enabled** (comes with Node.js): `corepack enable`

### Quick Start - Component Development

```bash
# First time setup
yarn install  # Will prompt to download Yarn via Corepack - answer Y

# Start Storybook (main development environment)
# Runs dev server at http://localhost:6006 for /apps/storybook-web-components
yarn storybook
```

Components are in `packages/kobber-components/src/`. Edit files and see changes live in Storybook at http://localhost:6006.

> [!NOTE]
> Storybook automatically builds dependencies (like CSS variables from design tokens in `kobber-base`) and has hot reload for component changes.

### Run docs page locally

```bash
yarn install

# Build only this package and all its dependencies
yarn build -F @gyldendal/kobber-components

# Start docs dev server. Runs /apps/docs project locally (kobber.gyldendal.no)
yarn dev -F docs
```

Also requires an .env file in the docs folder with [the following secrets in Keeper](https://keepersecurity.eu/vault/#detail/7i8pCa5I6A9YAIPYzvYTPA).

### Run Storybook locally

```bash
yarn install

# Produce css variables from design tokens, required by components
yarn build -F @gyldendal/kobber-base

# runs the dev server for /apps/storybook-web-components (kobber-storybook.gyldendaldigital.no)
yarn storybook
```

### Test Kobber locally using import aliases

Methods such as `npm link` exist for testing NPM packages locally before deploying to the NPM registry.

Import aliases can also be used for developing Kobber locally in parallel with other projects.

In the project using Kobber, add import aliases that point to the local Kobber repo:

```js
// vite.config.js

import { resolve } from "path";
import { defineConfig } from "vite";

export default defineConfig({
  resolve: {
    alias: {
      "@gyldendal/kobber-base": resolve(import.meta.dirname, "../kobber/packages/kobber-base"),
      "@gyldendal/kobber-components": resolve(import.meta.dirname, "../kobber/packages/kobber-components/dist"),
    },
  },
});
```

Webpack also has a `resolve.alias` option.

After updating the config it might be necessary to run Vite with the force option: `vite --force`.
