packages/kobber-icons/README.md, before:

# SVG icons

Icons can be used as react components or as web components.<br />
TypeScript definitions are included.

See also https://kobber.gyldendal.no/merkevare/ikoner.

## Usage

### Installation

Run one of the following commands to add @gyldendal/kobber-icons to your project:

```
npm install @gyldendal/kobber-icons
```

```
yarn add @gyldendal/kobber-icons
```

Depending on you usage, you might need to to install the optional peerDependencies.

### Using the svgs

Icons can be imported as react components, as web components, or as an SVG sprite.

#### As a react component

```jsx
import { IconArrowRight } from "@gyldendal/kobber-icons/react";
const App = () => <ArrowRight />;
```

#### As a custom element

```html
<script>
  import "@gyldendal/kobber-icons/web-components";
</script>
<kobber-arrow_right />
```

Custom element icon names are prefixed with kobber-, to ensure [valid naming](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/custom-elements.html#valid-custom-element-name).

#### Use sprite directly

Include the sprite `@gyldendal/kobber-icons/symbols/kobber-icons.svg` in your html, and reference its [symbols](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element/symbol).
The file `@gyldendal/kobber-icons/symbols/kobber-icons-lists.ts` contains a list of all icons and a type declaration, which can be useful.

Symbol ids are prefixed with `kobber-`, to avoid collisions with any other id in the html (including svg symbols in other sprites).

(Note that such ID references do not currenly work across the shadow dom barrier.)

```html
<svg role="presentation" aria-hidden="true">
  <use href="#kobber-arrow_right" />
</svg>
```

### Styling

#### Color

Icons have set `fill=currentcolor`. This means the icon components' color will inherit from their parent element.

#### Size

Icons use the CSS Custom Properties `--icon-width` and `--icon-height`, which both have `--kobber-primitives-size-16: 1rem;` as fallback value.

### 🧱 Icons folder structure

```
/
└── chunks/
│   └── chunk-[hash].js
└── react/
│   ├── index.js
│   └── index.d.ts
└── symbols/
│   ├── kobber-icons.svg
│   └── kobber-icons-lists.ts
└── web-components/
    ├── index.js
    └── index.d.ts
```

## Development

### ⚡ Quick how to: Update icons

1. Get all current icons from DAM:
   - Download from [DAM](https://dam-p-gyldendal.pqcloud.eu/app/#/search//name/?path=%22%5CKobber%5CDesignelementer%5CIkoner%22&enableAssetsOfCollections=true&showAssetsOfSubfolders=true&showSubCollections=false), or
   - Recieve svgs from a colleague with access to DAM.
2. Delete all content in folder `kobber/packages/kobber-icons/src/assets/svgs`.
3. Extract svgs to folder `kobber/packages/kobber-icons/src/assets/svgs`.
4. Run `yarn build`.
5. Commit changes, and publish according to [changeset](../../.changeset/README.md).

### Building icons

`yarn build` runs the `svg` script, and then the `tsup` script.

#### Script `svg`

`svg` uses the package [svg-sprite](https://github.com/svg-sprite/svg-sprite) to make the sprite `./symbols/kobber-icons.svg` from all icons in `src/assets/svgs` folder.

svg-sprite uses `./svg-sprite-config.json` to generate the sprite containing each icon as an [svg symbol](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element/symbol).

For each svg symbol, this config file:

- prefixes its id with `kobber-` (to avoid collisions with any other id in the html, including svg symbols in other sprites)
- ensures currentcolor is used as fill color

#### Script `tsup`

In `./tsup.config.ts`, the sprite is used as input for making `./symbols/kobber-icons-lists.ts`, the all icon components and their story files.

#### Generated files

All files in folders (`chunks`, `react`, `symbols` and `web-components`) are auto generated and should never be edited manually.

Commit message:

Add react-ssr-safe icon components

packages/kobber-icons/README.md, after:

# SVG icons

Icons can be used as react components or as web components.<br />
TypeScript definitions are included.

See also https://kobber.gyldendal.no/merkevare/ikoner.

## Usage

### Installation

Run one of the following commands to add @gyldendal/kobber-icons to your project:

```
npm install @gyldendal/kobber-icons
```

```
yarn add @gyldendal/kobber-icons
```

Depending on you usage, you might need to to install the optional peerDependencies.

### Using the svgs

Icons can be imported as react components, as web components, or as an SVG sprite.

#### As a react component

```jsx
import { IconArrowRight } from "@gyldendal/kobber-icons/react";
const App = () => <ArrowRight />;
```

#### As a custom element

```html
<script>
  import "@gyldendal/kobber-icons/web-components";
</script>
<kobber-arrow_right />
```

Custom element icon names are prefixed with kobber-, to ensure [valid naming](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/custom-elements.html#valid-custom-element-name).

#### Use sprite directly

Include the sprite `@gyldendal/kobber-icons/symbols/kobber-icons.svg` in your html, and reference its [symbols](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element/symbol).
The file `@gyldendal/kobber-icons/symbols/kobber-icons-lists.ts` contains a list of all icons and a type declaration, which can be useful.

Symbol ids are prefixed with `kobber-`, to avoid collisions with any other id in the html (including svg symbols in other sprites).

(Note that such ID references do not currenly work across the shadow dom barrier.)

```html
<svg role="presentation" aria-hidden="true">
  <use href="#kobber-arrow_right" />
</svg>
```

### Styling

#### Color

Icons have set `fill=currentcolor`. This means the icon components' color will inherit from their parent element.

#### Size

Icons use the CSS Custom Properties `--icon-width` and `--icon-height`, which both have `--kobber-primitives-size-16: 1rem;` as fallback value.

#### Styling react-ssr-safe components

These are injected as SVG elements into HTML. This means you can style the SVG element the same way you style HTML elements.

### 🧱 Icons folder structure

```
/
└── chunks/
│   └── chunk-[hash].js
└── react/
│   ├── index.js
│   └── index.d.ts
└── symbols/
│   ├── kobber-icons.svg
│   └── kobber-icons-lists.ts
└── web-components/
    ├── index.js
    └── index.d.ts
```

## Development

### ⚡ Quick how to: Update icons

1. Get all current icons from DAM:
   - Download from [DAM](https://dam-p-gyldendal.pqcloud.eu/app/#/search//name/?path=%22%5CKobber%5CDesignelementer%5CIkoner%22&enableAssetsOfCollections=true&showAssetsOfSubfolders=true&showSubCollections=false), or
   - Recieve svgs from a colleague with access to DAM.
2. Delete all content in folder `kobber/packages/kobber-icons/src/assets/svgs`.
3. Extract svgs to folder `kobber/packages/kobber-icons/src/assets/svgs`.
4. Run `yarn build`.
5. Commit changes, and publish according to [changeset](../../.changeset/README.md).

### Building icons

`yarn build` runs the `svg` script, and then the `tsup` script.

#### Script `svg`

`svg` uses the package [svg-sprite](https://github.com/svg-sprite/svg-sprite) to make the sprite `./symbols/kobber-icons.svg` from all icons in `src/assets/svgs` folder.

svg-sprite uses `./svg-sprite-config.json` to generate the sprite containing each icon as an [svg symbol](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element/symbol).

For each svg symbol, this config file:

- prefixes its id with `kobber-` (to avoid collisions with any other id in the html, including svg symbols in other sprites)
- ensures currentcolor is used as fill color

#### Script `tsup`

In `./tsup.config.ts`, the sprite is used as input for making `./symbols/kobber-icons-lists.ts`, the all icon components and their story files.

#### Generated files

All files in folders (`chunks`, `react`, `symbols` and `web-components`) are auto generated and should never be edited manually.
